# Deep SBOM Analysis

## Introduction

Software Bills of Materials (SBOMs) are machine-readable documents which are designed to
serve as an inventory of components used within a piece of software, such as
dependencies/libraries. They are often analogized as a “Nutrition Facts” label for software, able to help developers identify components in their software which might be susceptible to vulnerabilities, cause legal problems due to software licensing issues, and more. 


This project seeks to investigate the ways in which practitioners can validate and supplement the contents of potentially incomplete or incorrect SBOMs by leveraging data from other sources. This could include other SBOM tools, gathering
data directly from open-source software repositories, or, notably, GitHub’s own recent SBOM
generation tool. 

## Goal of This Repository

The Deep SBOM Analysis Project's goal is to create a repository with the tools needed to analyze Software Bill of Materials. 




## Specifications
These tools include:

SBOM.py:  This class simply uses the GitHub API to get the SBOM of a given project and stores the json.  This class is used to store the json of an SBOM based on a GitHub repo.


CompareSBOMs.py: This class compares two Software Bill of Materials and output/stores their differences. This class stores two SBOM jsons, allowing the user to set them, and compares them. It compares the "Truth SBOM" (the first SBOM) and the "NonTruth SBOM" (second SBOM). The class can be used to retrieve items that are present in the NonTruth SBOM and not in the Truth SBOM  (considered to be "added") and those present in the Truth SBOM but not the NonTruth (considered to be "removed"). Additionally, for testing, there is a built in functionality to make random edits to a Truth SBOM and compare that randomized version of the Truth SBOM with the nonchanged Truth SBOM.


CompareLocalSBOMWithRemote.py: This class heavily utilizes CompareSBOMs.py. Given a SBOM file generated by GitHub, its latest SBOM is found and stored. Then, CompareSBOMs.py can be applied to the problem. 


DeepAnalysis.py: This class is does a "Deep Analysis" of an SBOM. In other words, given an SBOM, the tool goes up the chain of dependencies to find all missing transient dependencies.

Requirements can be found in requirements.txt



